That we've mastered the building of layouts we're going to do some advance working with images which
will lead us to being able to create a reasonably complicated game.
Kinect 3 which will do in a couple of videos time.
For now though we're going to learn about fading animations.
So let's create a new project and we're going to do something fairly simple here.
We're going to create app with an image of Bart Simpson and when the image is tapped we're going to
morph him into Homer Simpson.
So let's just jump over to Wikipedia.
Which is where I'm going to get my images from.
Here we go.
So we're going to control click save image to download.
It's and it's nicely 200 pixels so that's a nice small size.
And then we'll do the same for Hyma.
Just check that I downloaded that one.
Yep there we go.
So those are two images.
So let's start by bringing them into our app again.
On Windows you can just drag straight in.
But on Mac I need to use command C to copy and then in the drawable folder command VI pastes them in.
There we get so now over an hour layout.
Let's create our image of.
I'll use the search to find it.
And I'll just get rid of the text for years we don't need that.
And bring in how Image view which is initially going to have the image of Bart Simpson and we might
as well make this full screen
or to get to the edge
and then tighten constraints
will have 0 everywhere.
There we go.
And at the same time I'll match that and I'll add the scale type to fit start.
Now you might be wondering how we're going to get the theta to happen when the image is tapped.
Well if you view all attributes for the image view and scroll down to earth you'll see that we have
an on click attribute meaning that we can treat an image much like a button and run a method when the
button is clicked.
So let's call the fade method which I'm about to write when BART is clicked OK.
That'll do for a set up.
I'll just run the app in the background while I'm writing some code.
That's been awhile since we've done this so hopefully still reasonably fresh in your mind.
Let's create a public method which doesn't return anything that's void.
It's called Fate.
It's still going to be called by a view just in this case the view is going to be an image view rather
than a button.
And initially let's just do a quick log
to confirm
that the image view has been tapped and then run it again.
And you can see we've got an error here which is new to address GTA 3 that results names Maslany contain
lower case letters numbers or underscores.
So that's definitely worth remembering.
Let's quickly rename our files so we'll have Homer and bolt and them will copy those in
in the usual way.
Get rid of him.
But so I just control clicked there.
All right click on Windows and delete
yet we know that it's in use.
That's fine because we can go back to our image view and update
the image
to our new bot.
All right.
So if you're coming from an earlier version of Android studio that doesn't have that file name restriction
then just be aware that you're going to need to rename your files to only contain lower case letters
numbers and underscores.
And here we go.
But let's tap him and have a quick look in the locks and they we get images apt.
So everything is connected up nicely.
So let's see how we fade bought out.
So as you might guess we initially have to get the image we will do that by creating a variable called
Image we only have one image.
So just calling it image view is fine and we'll get it using find VBIED resources to ID dot image we
need to cast that to an image.
And then initially we'll just do a simple fade out and we do that using image view.
Dalt animate that's what we're going to be using for all of our animations and we're going to animate.
You can see a lot of different options for animating here scaling.
Translating that's moving or rotating.
But we're going to animate the alpha which if you remember from a couple of sections back decides how
solid the picture appears.
So if we animate the Alpha to 0
then that will faded out completely.
We want that to happen over a certain period of time.
So we'll set the Joorabchian.
And this is a number of milliseconds.
Let's do it every two seconds.
So that's two thousand milliseconds.
All right.
Let's have a look.
I'm going to use the lightning button this time which
reloads as quickly as possible.
Just made simple changes to your code so you can try using that.
And then if we tap you can see there we go.
Magically disappears.
Fantastic.
So you can experiment a little bit without changing the alpha value and the duration to see how that
affects the animation.
But we're going to move straight to animating from one to the other.
So from Bart to Houma several different ways you can do this but the simplest is to bring in a second
image view.
In fact rather than drag it in which we could do we will do that using
the text view and then just copying and pasting
the image view Kate.
Of course we'll need to have different IDs
call them Bart imagery and home imagery.
And then we can change the SLC.
That is the source of the pain the image the Tahoma.
But we want to set the Alpha for the homer image be to zero.
So it's not visible initially.
So now we need to change this to Bart image v.
And I'll change here as well.
And we need to bring in home imagery.
So let's create I never image v.
just the same as before.
Find VBI ID order ID Ducs.
And then you can probably imagine what we're going to do hits a fade in the home or imagery we'll use
Hyma imagery dot animate and this time we want to change the Alpha to 1 and we'll do it over the same
duration.
Two seconds.
All right.
That makes sense so with fading out the BART image view and with fading in the home imagery.
Let's take a look.
All right so let's tap on BART and there we go.
Wonderful.
So you've got the idea.
A little challenge for you then to finish this off.
You make it so that when we tap on Homer It goes back to Bart.
So instead of just fading from Bart to Herma it goes back from back to time at about Hyma every time
you tap lots of different ways you can do that.
So try to be creative.
I'll show you my solution when you've had a guy best of luck.
Go for it.
So I hope you manage that.
As I said lots of different ways to do it but I'm going to do it using a boolean flag to track which
image is displayed at any given time.
So let's set up a boolean and I'll call it Bart is showing.
And initially that's going to be equal to true.
So then once we've got the two imageries we want to check to see if Bart is showing.
Then we fade out and fade in Houma else.
We're going to do the opposite
fade in Bart fade out Hyma of course we need to update the BART is showing billion each time.
So if Bart is showing We now want to change Barty's sharing to folks because we faded out
otherwise we find him back in.
So it will set Bartie showing back to true notice I've created the variable up here so it will be remembered
as long as the app is open.
If you create it in the fade method it will be forgotten when the method ends up being no good for keeping
track of which image is being displayed.
All right let's take a look see if it works.
So here we go.
Tapping on BART morphs into Houma tapping on Hyma moves us back into about Exham.
So whether you did that or used a different method.
Well the next video we're now going to take this further and extend into all sorts of other different
types of animations.